# Introduction
For this activity, I attended two online seminars focusing on business cybersecurity. Although the target audience for these seminars/talks were for businesses, not only would some of the topics be useful for completing the project but they covered some topics that I found interesting.

## [Cyber Wardens Foundations](https://cyberwardens.com.au/webinars/)
Cyber Wardens is a government funded initiative (with support from Telstra, Commonwealth Bank, and the Council of Small Business Organisations of Australia) which aim to help small business owners become aware of cybersecurity threats that could impact their business. They offer several free services to accomplish this goal, including frequent seminars with guest speakers (including those from both public and private organisations). For this activity, I actually attended two separate seminars:
- A "foundations" seminar on March 18, which had a guest speaker from the Australian Signals Directorate (ASD)
- Another "foundations" seminar on March 19, which had a guest speaker from the Australian Federal Police (AFP)

The first seminar I attended was on March 18. This seminar had Rebecca Paterson from the Australian Signals Directorate as a guest speaker. The full notes of this seminar, some screenshots from the call, and the email confirmations are available in the `Cyber Wardens - ASD` directory. The seminar began with Rebecca discussing some of the impacts of cybercrime in the last year (including some statistics) and quickly spoke about how businesses (of all sizes) can prevent cyberattacks and what they can do if they become a victim to a cyberattack. This segment only lasted for roughly the first 15 minutes before moving onto the Cyber Wardens presentation. This presentation went a bit more in-depth about the same topics, focusing on identifying and preventing cyberattacks on small businesses and what they can do if they become a victim. This presentation ran for approximately 30 minutes, then moved onto the final Q&A session which filled up the remaining 15 minutes of the seminar. In this session, they just answered some of the questions that other attendants had posted in the chat during the presentation. There wasn't a lot of important information in this section, but that was to be expected. Overall, this seminar was completely fine. It wasn't much value to me personally which was expected, but to a small business owner there was some excellent information that could genuinely help them secure their business against cyberattacks.

The next seminar I attended was on March 19. This seminar had Claudia Forsyth, the Team Lead for Cyber Crime Prevention at the Australian Federal Police, as a guest speaker. The full notes of this seminar, some screenshots from the call, and the email confirmations are available in the `Cyber Wardens - AFP` directory. This seminar followed pretty much the exact same structure as yesterday. It began with Claudia discussing some of the impacts of cybercrime on Australia, the top cybercrime threats for businesses in Australia (with a specific focus on business email compromise), and how businesses can protect against and report cybercrime. This was much longer than the ASD's equivalent segment, running for the first 28 minutes. It then moved onto the Cyber Wardens presentation, which was essentially the exact same as yesterday's presentation. This finished at about 8:54, where they went on to answering questions from other people in attendance. Nothing of note was really answered in this session, which is unlike yesterday's session (possibly because the AFP's presentation was longer and explained things better but I don't know for sure). Overall, I would say this seminar was better than yesterday's. It still is targeted towards small business owners, but covering one topic in-depth rather than brushing on a few different topics probably makes it easier for business owners to digest (and business email compromise being a big attack vector right now makes the most sense to cover in-depth). Although there wasn't a lot of specific information on how to harden security, the prevention techniques presented would probably be adequate enough for most businesses.

## [NAB Business Cyber Security Awareness](https://www.nab.com.au/about-us/security/online-safety-tips-business/security-awareness-presentations)
This seminar was held by the National Australia Bank (NAB), one of the big four banks in Australia. This is one of a series of semi-frequent seminars hosted by NAB which provide business owners with an overview of the cybersecurity threat landscape of today. Although this one was primarily targeted towards businesses, they also offer some seminars talking about how cybercriminals are targeting individuals.

I attended the seminar hosted on April 7.