### Emails and Messaging Scams
For this activity, I taught an elderly person I know about phishing and scams in emails and text messages. The reason for choosing this topic in particular was to provide them with information they could actually use. Although they have had a smart device for a few years (and hence more susceptible to falling for these messages/emails), they had never been told about what they look like or what to look out for so this seemed like a perfect opportunity.

For every message, the general advice was to look at how well-spoken the message/email is as they often use broken English (though this is increasingly becoming less of an issue with AI being so accessible). Other signs of scam messages/emails include the urgency of the message (some even begin with "Urgent:"), checking the URLs in the message (they often have no relation to the supposed sender), look at the sender (generally businesses don't send from regular phone numbers), looking if it is a group chat (since they often try to target multiple people at once), and read what the message says carefully before taking any action. In most of the examples provided, I have never interacted with the organisation they're trying to imitate so this is an indicator.

In addition to the above, I told the person that there is no perfect way to detect whether a message is a scam or not and that they should contact the organisation using whatever communication method they had previously used. As these scams become more sophisticated, they are only going to become more and more believable which isn't a good combination with someone who doesn't understand what exactly is occurring. So, while I did teach them what to look out for and what the scams are trying to do (often it's for money), I also had to tell them that they should always ask someone else about it before doing anything anyway.

<br>

### Additional Notes for Marker
Evidence for this activity is, admittedly, lacking a little bit. Out of respect for the person I spoke to (and partially because trying to explain the purpose for needing these materials to an elderly person would be too hard), I did not take any photos/videos/recordings of this activity being completed. However, some of the examples (all of which are ones that I have recently received) that I went through to showcase some of the signs of phishing or scams are available in the `examples` directory in addition to a consent form signed by the person.